you can learn a lot from failure but you
don't learn from failing you learn from
the study of failure whether that's the
study of an historical event you had
nothing to do with disasters of
communism the failure of democracy and
Cambodia Laos or failure is right in
front your own eyes in your own lifetime
for me I learned a lot from looking at
the failure of the Green Party in Canada
failure of different ecological
movements if you're old enough you can
really remember a time when people were
promising simple technological progress
and things like solar power we're going
to transform the world that's one reason
why the way by I'm very skeptical about
this idea that fake meat that meat
produced in a laboratory is going to
change the world so quickly very often
we have a scientific solution for things
in principle but getting them into
practice in the free market scaling them
up making them economically viable that
is another matter where decades and
decades later you may have seen no
progress but the promises of simple
technological solutions for profound
ecological problems back in the 1980s
very very few of them have materialized
in in any way but I'm aware I say an
intro to this video I'm aware that my
own practical philosophy of veganism my
own political philosophy of ecology is
in many ways influenced negatively it's
influenced by the failure of so many
other paradigms before in many ways you
know the fact that the Green Party of
Canada is a pathetic failure as if
what's the end it simple to be
positively in a sense because I've drawn
lessons from that we've done got some
interesting feedback within patreon
those of you pay the one dollar you get
a lot of value for your money I do
record many of these videos in direct
response to things viewers have said to
me you pay the one dollar per month
support me on patreon thank you for your
patronage one of my viewers asked
wouldn't it be better to use the word
autonomy rather than the word dignity
when I'm talking about wild animals what
I'm talking about the wildlife
management paradigm wildlife management
approach to vegan
we can't ecology in animal rights um
first of all there's a shallow sense in
which you can respond to this just about
the meaning of words we do not talk
about autonomy in death we talk about
dignity in death right the reason why
dignity is so useful is that you can
have dignity in suffering and this is
related to my rejection of
utilitarianism is a video on that that
again was a direct response to a patreon
supporter someone who paid the one
dollar send me that question that day
the same day they signed up I recorded
the video same to join the groups that
was satisfying a little uh little
interaction with one of the viewers i do
not think the meaning of life for human
beings is happiness I do not think the
meaning of life for animals is happiness
nor even that we can structure how we
live as humans or how we how we treat
animals in terms of the reduction of
suffering the life of a wild animal they
have infinitely more suffering than a
domesticated animal but as I've said
before recently I think that a lion in a
sense deserves to live for five years in
the wild ie if its natural lifespan this
particular eyes happens the only five
years five years perhaps of sorrow
hunger struggling suffering ending
eventually in death in the wild in a
sense a lion deserves that life rather
than being domesticated castrated forced
to perform in a zoo or a circus rather
than existing as a toy for human
entertainment or as one of the
accoutrement for human civilization now
I use the word dignity in talking about
that contrast of values I talk about the
dignity of a lion that gets to live and
die in the wild on its own terms and I
do not talk about its autonomy know why
is that again I've already sat down one
reason you can talk about dignity in
suffering you can talk about dignity and
death in other words dignity very much
exists despite the framework set up for
us by the utilitarians um but there is
no such thing as autonomy in death or
autonomy and suffering and um
finishing the comments about the the the
meaning of the word before we get into a
little a little bit of a deeper look at
this issue the real meaning of autonomy
etymologically and politically autonomy
is the ability to make your own laws and
I actually do not believe that animals
in this sense on our world on planet
Earth in this century will ever really
be autonomous first of all that's not
the point I mean the point isn't that
Lions should make their own laws nor
that wolves or bears make their own laws
so the word autonomy starts become
meaningless when you look at it that in
that sense and you know politically that
really is the meaning of autonomy within
Canada how much autonomy does Quebec AB
does Quebec have the freedom to make its
own laws to to differ from the rest of
Canada to differ from the federal
government what have you in reality and
one of the profound differences between
the wildlife management paradigm the
approach I talked about on this channel
and anarchism is that I do not actually
fetishize the wilderness I do not hold
up the wild as some kind of
transcendental ideal of something
outside of independent from and superior
to human society I do not regard
wilderness as a religious value I do not
regard it as something human beings
aren't entitled to touch or manage on
the contrary the reality that will we
live in is that the only way for wild
animals to survive now and in the next
hundred years is for human beings to be
actively engaged in wildlife management
the site used this term so much what
does wildlife management involve
ultimately involves men with guns who
are paid by taxpayers to defend the
forest against other human beings who
want to cut the trees down this is only
one element of it but managing the
populations of wild animals like bears
involves very active human intervention
all the time given the example if a bear
leaves it's a sign habitat ultimately
human beings have drawn a square on the
map and said that's the forest we're
going to preserve that's the area where
wild bears are protected species where
human beings don't hunt them where human
beings are not allowed to cut down the
trees but if
their leaves that area if the bear for
example wants to eat garbage from human
homes wants to eat from a dump wants to
go downtown in the city human beings
hopefully will tranquilize the bear and
relocate it back to the wilderness
unfortunately reality very often we just
shoot and kill the bear but let's be
idealistic for a minute here so that is
not autonomy in any sense right we're
actually we're not talking about the
autonomy of the wild animals we're not
talking about reducing the suffering in
the world i know i'm done with the
happiness of all animals we're talking
about a human-centered conspiracy if you
like to try to allow these animals to
live and die with dignity even if their
lives are miserable not as our house
pets not as entertainers in a zoo and
and what have you now other viewers are
think within patreon some of my other
viewers have written to me saying that
there is one book that agrees with me to
some extent I think partly because my my
approach fundamentally is human centered
and it's even legal said it's based on
the existence of the modern bureaucratic
tax collecting state of not an anarchist
and most of the people who agree with me
up to a certain point they are vaguely
vaguely an artistic anti-establishment
vegans deep ecologists etc etc there's a
book by a guy called Edward o Wilson
called half earth our planets fight for
life so the main title is just half
earth and I believe the reason why some
of my viewers think I have a lot in
common with this guy is that he also
says look fundamentally the challenge
here is of human being sitting down with
a map drawing a line and saying on one
side of this line you're allowed to cut
down the trees you're allowed to exploit
the environment for profit for human use
and on the other side of this line you
can't it's illegal it's preserved its
habitat conservation wildlife management
etc now I have not read this book and I
looked into buying a copy here in China
it would cost me more than 40 US dollars
to order it on paper and there is not
available as an e-text it's not
available as a digital book as a kindle
book and it's only about 250 pages long
so I'm going to with this video put in a
request anyway
especially if you're on patreon but
anyone can have my email if you own a
copy of this book and you're done with
it you've already read it you want to
get rid of it please email me I would
like to arrange for someone to send me a
copy of this because I can't justify the
cost well Mira China and with anything
you buy like that here in China it's
possible it will never arrive you know
like you can pay the money and it's just
going to disappear in the mail so only
do this if you've already read it and
you're finished with the book I would be
interested get a copy of that it may be
I have nothing in common with a guy it's
I think it's most likely i'll read it
i'll agree with it up to a point but
then i'll come on youtube and review it
and complain that it doesn't talk enough
about veganism and the difference
between animal agriculture culture some
of that but i am interested here anyone
has some some views and come with me
because certainly it's it's a very
unusual approach to veganism animal
rights ecology etc um so look dignity
the fact that i use this word dignity at
all many people criticize this very
short comment here i'm going to read one
of the viewers on YouTube comments
dignity is only subjective how does want
to objectively talk about our measure
dignity I understand the concern whether
it's philosophical political or
what-have-you some people feel this is a
great weakness in the web present my
views here on YouTube that I talked
about the dignity of animals and the
dignity of human beings because I've
said recently when it comes to drinking
cow milk I both think this is beneath
the dignity of a cow to be to live its
life in captivity to produce milk for
human consumption but I also think it's
beneath the dignity of human beings I do
not think it's dignified for human being
to get down on their hands and knees and
suck the milk out of a cow's breast um
it doesn't matter if you take the milk
out of the cows breasts and then put it
in a bottle it doesn't fundamentally
change things for me so to me their
questions of both humans and animals
igni involved under this under this
category under this heading um is
dignity subjective is this a great
weaknesses it's problematic I have to
refer this to the issue of calibration
in the social sciences in political
science we actually talked a lot about
calibrating the instrument to measure
problem it sounds like medical science
but it's not this is political science
it was a hilarious example this recently
when Donald Trump or Donald Trump's
representatives I think this wasn't
directly from done
trumpet the politician Donald Trump
complained that the tax forms the tack
the the form see Phillip government were
not calibrated to measure the wealth of
someone as extremely wealthy as he is so
he was suggesting that these these are
set up to measure how much money
middle-class people have but that once
you're into millions of dollars they
don't accurately reflect how wealthy he
is now I've worked at the opposite
extreme of calibration and the social
sciences when I was in Cambodia I did
social science research on poverty where
we were calibrating our measurements
just to investigate the difference
between people who are extremely poor
were desperately poor who were a little
bit better off than that people who were
poor uh you know like it stopped if you
if you had enough money to own a
motorcycle we didn't measure anything
above that basically you know it was
like are you are you so poor that when
when you've had your leg cut off you
can't afford to go to a hospital or you
poor but you could borrow money from
your family to go to the hospital in
those circumstances we were looking at
degrees of poverty way down on the on
the scale and then you know once you
were into someone even if it was a
wooden house in a poverty-stricken
communities the people who objectively
maybe by United Nations standards who
would be poor but they have a house with
more than one bedroom made of wood maybe
that house has no electricity but they
have a motorcycle and they can drive
that motorcycle to work even if their
work is an incredibly poor job at a
factory or working in a farmer's field
or what have you a lot of farmers that
part they go back and forth to the farm
on their motorbike once you were above
that point we were not measuring it
anymore so calibration for how we
measure and describe a problem Social
Sciences it basically you know defines
what you see and what you don't see
right in Cambodia we were not measuring
the upward mobility of middle-class
people which would be another
interesting question you could look at
middle class people and wealthy people
you could calibrate what you're studying
to say well i'm interested in cambodia
how do people who are wealthy or above a
certain level how do they educate their
children what kind of
schools that you would be a totally
different set of social science
measurements this issue of dignity on
the upper end of the scale if you are a
human being living in Canada do you have
more dignity if you get a job working at
a nurse in a large hospital or in a
small medical practice in a remote
village in Canada that's a very
different set of measurements for
dignity right we're talking about the
upper end of the scale calibrating we're
measuring we're investigating what what
is a better way for a human being in a
hospital to die understood is there more
dignity in giving them certain type of
painkillers or in refusing to give them
those painkillers and taking a different
treatment options these are the upper
you have to calibrate a different set of
questions that task about dignity in
that way in that mode but what I'm
talking about with dignity in in this
context in reference to veganism animal
rights the future of this movement I
think we have no problem at all
calibrating the concept of dignity to
question is it better for a whale to
live in the ocean or to live in a
swimming pool is it better for a dolphin
to live and die in the wild free or to
be captured put into a swimming pool and
forced to perform tricks for human
beings I don't think anyone watching
this video said well gee I just don't
know I just don't know how we would
define dignity objectively to recognize
the difference between you know a
dolphin in SeaWorld or some other Park
Marineland performing tricks to entering
human beings and a dolphin that lives in
the ocean that lives and dies in the
ocean again with dignity we're not just
talking about happiness and freedom when
I example good things dolphin may starve
to death dolphin may be killed by
predators dolphin may live a miserable
life and may die after only a few years
in the in the wild and it might have a
much longer life in captivity and it
might you know get fed every day it's
not going to struggle to find food I do
not see how anyone sincerely can say at
that at that low level we have trouble
measuring or talking about dignity now
certainly the debates in this channel
have gotten into some gray areas where
people say well you know what if it's a
error in the wild and the bear breaks
its leg if you leave the bear in the
wild it's going to die even though it
only has one broken leg if you rescue
the bear whether to put it into a zoo or
something else you know is that more of
a life of dignity okay we can talk about
that you know problem can we can have a
philosophical debate about what the
right thing to do is if a wild bear has
broken its leg fine but let's be real
the challenge we're all looking at in
the next 200 years is convincing our
fellow human beings to stop wearing
leather boots out of a combination of
vanity stupidity and traditionalism to
stop murdering millions of animals on an
unbelievable scale every day to stop
exploiting the last of the world's
resources to the point where all wild
animals are endangered status a threat
to disappear from earth except for rats
any large mammal you can think of
absolutely now requires you know the
active intervention of government and
concern people what governments donors
like Bill Gates or what have you to
prevent the last of their habitats from
disappearing so to use the concept of
dignity in this limited sense calibrated
just to recognize yes you know there's a
profound difference between when we as
vegans look at a pig that has been
castrated and that it's had its fangs
torn out of its its heads or fang is not
the correct term anyway um you know a
pig that has been surgically modified so
that it can be a house pet this is
commonly done so-called pot-bellied pigs
a breed created only to entertain human
beings and they have to have their teeth
torn out when they're still young they
have to be castrated and then they have
to have their will broken be trained be
constantly handled in her ass try to get
them to behave like a toy instead of
behave like a free road ranging proud
independent competitive assertive wild
animal I have I just do not see how we
can really say boy it's it's hard to see
the difference in dignity between a wild
boar living in the wild reproducing in
the wild competing struggling to survive
etc has a pack of other members of its
species it has fealty to that pack it
competes to mate it explores the
wilderness it may
starve to death it may it may die a long
slow painful death eventually in its
life but before it dies it at least has
lived and it has lived in this sense on
its own terms in a way that's
appropriate for its own species yes in a
capacity it's evolved for in an
ecological niche it's evolved for in
habitat it is evolved and adapted for
the type of dignity we see in that in
contrast to a pig that lives its entire
life on a concrete floor in a steel cage
so that it can have its throat cut and
provide meat for human beings or a pig
even rescued from those conditions to be
turned into a house pet for the
entertainment of human beings so again a
lot of my discussion of this started by
trying to alert my fellow vegans to the
real ideological danger of fetishizing
the cute piglet of taking the cute
piglet as the symbol of what veganism is
about as if the point of veganism was to
say we love our house pets we love dogs
and cats and now we want to extend that
love to include all animals to include
pigs to include dolphins where I'm
saying no actually the moral baselines
the most overused phrase and veganism no
the moral baseline for me is not an
animal that's been castrated defamed had
its will broken and turned into a
decoration your carpet my standard for
how humans ought to treat animals is not
how you personally may treat your dog
that sleeps next to you while you watch
television okay my standard is to say
you know you look at a map you decide
there's some area not because it's
sacred this is not based on a religious
fetishization of the wilderness it's not
based on any kind of in this sense
appeal to nature fallacy human being sit
down they draw lines around a map and
they say okay in that area it's illegal
for a human being to shoot a bear it's
illegal for a human being to cut down
trees and for myriad reasons that
ultimately our human reasons we are
going to preserve the dignity of animals
there that live and die on their own
terms not for our expert and not for
exploitation not for entertainment etc